
--- Page 1 ---
NILESH FONSEKA

+94 777 243397 | nileshfonseka0@gmail.com | Nugegoda, Sri Lanka
LinkedIn | GitHub

Experience

Junior Machine Learning Engineer Jan 2025 — Present
Engenia Solutions Pty. Ltd - Victoria, Australia (Remote)

Binary classification to identify Frogs & Non-Frogs sounds:
e Transformed WAV audio files from both classes into embeddings, preparing training, testing, and validation sets.
e Applied cross-validation techniques to divide classes into these sets and performed embedding and training using the pre-trained model
YAMNET from TensorFlow.
Employee Management system development:
e Developed the backend using Django and the frontend using ReactJS.
e —_ Efficiently handled API requests using Django Rest Framework and managed CORS for connecting the ReactJS frontend
e Utilized axios and state variables in the React frontend for backend communication
Joint probability calculation of weather factors:
e Developed a method using Discrete Bayesian networks to calculate the joint probability of three weather factors Temperature, humidity,
wind — each with dependencies on the others.
Backend API development for ML prediction application:
e Implemented a Fast API backend to efficiently handle API requests and responses.

Machine Learning Engineer - Intern July 2024 - Jan 2025
Engenia Solutions Pty. Ltd - Victoria, Australia (Remote)

Extraction & analysis of Australian women’s sports news:
e Conducted web scraping using Selenium for Australian women’s sports websites and built a classification pipeline to categorize the extracted
news as on-field and off-field using OpenAl LLM’s.
e  Asentiment analysis was then performed using Hugging face BERT and statistical tests like Chi-square, ANOVA was conducted to analyze
relationships between performance-related and social well-being news.
Active frame counting on brood boxes to identify bee harvest:
e Developed an object detection model using YOLO, Fast RCNN to identify the number of active frames inside a brood box via thermal images.
e Initially the bounding boxes were annotated for the dataset and trained on COCO-formatted data. After hyperparameter tuning and reducing
the model complexity, the accuracy of the model increased from 68% to 75%.
Audio Classification for multiclass bird species:
e —_ Built a multiclass classification model using TensorFlow Keras.
e Applied data augmentation (noise addition, pitch shifting) and regularization techniques (Ridge L2, dropout) to improve generalization.
Deployed a Flask-based web app for real-time predictions.
Power BI Dashboard Development:
e Designed interactive dashboards for grant distribution analysis across Australian universities using DAX and Power Query, optimizing data
processing for efficient insights

Data Analytics Intern Feb 2024 — June 2024
Dialog Network Services (PVT) Ltd
Power BI Dashboard Development & Automating workflows
e Developed and optimized interactive dashboards for Site Acquisition data visualization using DAX and Power Query.
e Streamlined and automated Site Acquisition processes using Workhub24, enhancing operational efficiency.

Research
Quantum-inspired methods for training machine learning models

e Developed a Quadratic Unconstrained Binary Optimization (QUBO) algorithm to enhance multiple regression modeling & utilized D-Wave
Quantum Computers to explore quantum speedup potential.
e This research is in the process of submission for Modern Education and Computer Science Press journal

Education Skills

BSc (Hons) in Computational Mathematics Languages & Frameworks: Python, R, SQL, Flask, Django, Langchain
(Computer Science & Applied Mathematics) Machine Learning & Deep Learning : NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib,
University of Colombo - Faculty of Science | GPA - 3.178 Seaborn, Scikit Learn, TensorFlow, PyTorch, YOLO, Hugging Face,
Certificate in Business Administration NLP, LLM

Wisdom Business Academy Web Development : HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ReactJS

St. Peter’s College - Colombo 04 Miscellaneous : Selenium, AWS Services (S3, EC2, EBS) , Docker , GitHub
GCE A/L’s — Combined Maths (A), Physics(C), Chemistry (C) Actions , OOP concepts, Fast API, CI/CD, JIRA & Confluence, Power BI

GCE O/L’s-—9 A’s (DAX, Power Query)

